We've now got some code put together to publish an event to our net streaming server.
But if we go back over to our terminal inside of our Nats test directory and run NP and run, publish.
We'll see a nasty error saying that we cannot connect to the net streaming server.
So how are we going to fix this?
Well, the whole issue here is that we are trying to run our program right now and access some program
that's running inside of a pod inside of our cluster to access something inside the cluster.
There are a couple of different options available to us.
So we can use a very classic option that we are now very much familiar with.
Option number one.
Here's our Nats pod.
We created a cluster IP service to govern access to that pod so we can very easily go into our ingress
engine exe file.
And add in some routes inside there that's going to expose the cholesterol service to the outside world.
So then we could tell our publisher program to just communicate directly with ingress engine X.
So this is option number one and we could definitely make this work.
However, there's something kind of interesting about this test program that I want to put together.
One of the very key things I want to show you is what happens if our publisher program or the listener
program suddenly loses its connection with that Nat's streaming server pod.
So I want to very easily be able to essentially break that link and then very quickly toggle it back
on without a lot of complicated commands or anything like that.
So even though option number one would definitely work, it's a little bit too heavy weight for what
we're trying to do right now.
So option number two, we could create a node port service to expose the Nets pod directly to the outside
world or whatever is running outside of our Kubernetes cluster.
So this would definitely work as well.
And we could definitely probably figure out how to easily write a command to very quickly delete that
service so that we could simulate breaking that connection and then repairing it very quickly.
However, this would still require us to write out a config file.
That's okay.
But right now we're just making a very small little test program and again, creating a config file
just a little bit heavyweight.
So there actually is option number three to get access to running or something running inside of a pod
inside of our cluster very easily inside of a strictly development setting.
So here's what we can do.
We can run a command at our terminal that tells our Kubernetes cluster to port forward a port off of
a very specific pod inside of our cluster.
When we use this port forwarding thing, it's going to cause our cluster to essentially behave as though
it has a node port service running inside of it.
It's going to expose this pod or a very specific port on it to the outside world and allow us to connect
to it directly from our local machine.
So this is what we're going to do to get access to that NAT streaming server pod.
So let me show you how to set up this port forwarding thing.
We're going to first go back to our terminal.
I'm going to close the app and run publish by hitting control.
See?
I'm then going to get a list of all my different running pods with Cube.
It'll get pods.
I'll find the name of the pod that is running by Nats streaming server.
I'm going to copy the name and then I will run Cube, CTL or Forward.
Then the name of the pod.
And then the ports that I want to set up port forwarding to.
The first number right here is the port on my local machine that I want to be able to access to get
at this pod.
The second number is going to be the port on the pod that I'm trying to actually access.
In this case, we're going to just say connect directly through four to 2 to 4, two, two.
So I'm going to run that.
And we'll see a little kind of prompt right here saying, okay, we are forwarding all traffic from
localhost port four, two, two, two, two, four, two, two to on that actual pod.
So now we should be able to go back over.
To another terminal.
I said, back over.
Really?
We want to open another terminal window.
We want to leave this thing running so I can open another terminal window.
And we will run npm.
Run, publish in here.
And now we should see publisher connected to Nets.
Okay.
So this port forwarding command is not just restricted to using gnats or something like that.
We can use this for any different port, any kind of thing we create that we want to connect directly
to.
If it is a very temporary little connection.
The nice thing about using port forward is that, as I mentioned, we want to be able to break the connection
here very easily.
To do so, all we have to do is stop that process running the Port Forward Command.
We're not going to do that just yet.
I'll show you what happens.
We do it a little bit later on.
So we are now connected between our publisher program and the pod.
So another quick pause right here and we'll continue adding in some code to our publisher in the next
video.